---
layout: post
title: "Irssi 1.1.0 Released"
---

Happy new year again from the Irssi Team!

Irssi 1.1.0 has been released. This release is the result of all the
contributions Irssi received in the past year. Of course, it includes
all the security fixes from Irssi 1.0.6.

Will Storey, Joseph Bisch, Edward Tomasz Napierala and Jari Matitainen
contributed to this release and accepted our invitation to join the
project, as well as external contributions from Robert Bisewski, Paul
Townsend, Oscar Linderholm, Rodrigo Rebello, Stephen Oberholtzer,
Paolo Martini, Martijn Dekker, Tim Konick, Hanno Böck, Tristan Pepin
Michael Hansen, and Lasse Toimela. In total 151 files changed, with
6214 line insertions and 1062 line deletions.  Thanks everyone!

We rushed in some last minute fixes into 1.1.0 so as they wouldn't
have to sit on the queue until next year. We hope it doesn't affect
stability of the release too much. Thanks for those helping us test by
running the Git version!

Some notable changes:

 - `/server` does not connect to servers anymore, we recommend using `/connect`! You can also change servers using `/server connect`
 - `/foreach` now emits commands instead of sending text to the targets

Some interesting new features:

 - If you use the per window command history, global history can now be accessed with Ctrl+Arrows
 - History entries can now be deleted (e.g. to remove some secrets)
 - East-asian users will enjoy `/set break_wide` to make words wrap more naturally
 - On FreeBSD, Irssi now supports the Capsicum sandbox (experimental)
 - Lines with certain levels can be hidden from screen (not ignored), using `/window hidelevel`

Some new developments:

 - Fuzzing code has been added to the repository, which may help find certain kinds of bugs (and already has!)
 - Module authors can now use `net_start_ssl` for StartTLS (used e.g. by Quassel)
 - Irssi now has a folder for unit tests!

See the [NEWS](//raw.githubusercontent.com/irssi/irssi/1.1.0/NEWS) for
details.

After installing the new release, you can use `/upgrade` to re-launch
your Irssi binary, but don't forget to `/save` first. TLS connections
will break and require manual `/reconnect 1` and so on. To save and
restore the window content, load the `buf.pl` script and make sure it
is in autorun. Starting with Irssi 1.1.0, you can also save and
restore your command history -- check [this
comment](//github.com/irssi/irssi/pull/762#issuecomment-334609440)
until someone comes up with a proper script.

We are committed to put security, stability and regression fixes on
subsequent 1.1.x releases, as we have done for 1.0.

As usual, there remains a lot to be done. We are always looking for
help, so you can check the [bugs](//github.com/irssi/irssi/labels/bug)
and see if you can fix some, or implement some of the enhancement
requests. The initial version of [horizontal splits]({% post_url
2017-05-06-test-sideways-splits %}) has already landed in Git and thus
should be included in Irssi 1.2.0.

This release can be downloaded from [our releases
page](https://github.com/irssi/irssi/releases). Binary test packages
for various Linux distributions are automatically generated by the
[openSUSE Build Service](https://build.opensuse.org/) and are
available for download in the
[irssi-test](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:ailin_nemui:irssi-test;package=irssi)
repository.

By the way, test packages for the Git version are also available for
download in the
[irssi-git](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:ailin_nemui:irssi-test;package=irssi-git)
repository, and an archive of the old stable version is available in
[irssi-oldtest](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:ailin_nemui:irssi-oldtest;package=irssi).

We are also looking for packagers who want to take the challenge of
adding compatible builds of
irssi-{python,otr,xmpp,icb,quassel,fish,theme-indent,...} to either
distributions or the openSUSE Build Service (has to support all our
current targets there.)

The Irssi Team.
