---
layout: post
title: "Irssi 1.2.0 Released"
---

Happy lunar new year from the Irssi Team!

Irssi 1.2.0 has been released.  This release is the result of all the
contributions Irssi received in the past year.  Of course, it includes
all the security fixes from Irssi 1.1.2.

23 users contributed to this release.  In total 174 files changed with
9215 line insertions and 1602 line deletions.  Thanks everyone!

Another thanks for those helping us test Irssi by running the Git
version!

Some notable changes:

 - `/statusbar` has a whole new [syntax](/documentation/help/statusbar/)
 - /1 /2 /3 ... removed from default config (available as new setting `window_number_commands`)
 - Private notices intended for channels are now displayed on the channel (new setting `notice_channel_context`)
 - The assumed width of characters can now be configured (new setting `wcwidth_implementation`)

Some interesting new features:

 - The "Off-the-record" module is now included in the Irssi source
 - Initial version of [horizontal splits]({% post_url 2017-05-06-test-sideways-splits %})
 - Formatting support for the input line, for example to hilight wrong words with spell checker script

See the [NEWS](/NEWS/#v1-2-0) for details.

After installing the new release, you can use `/upgrade` to re-launch
your Irssi binary, but don't forget to `/save` first. TLS connections
will break and require manual `/reconnect 1` and so on. To save and
restore the window content, load the `buf.pl` script and make sure it
is in autorun. Starting with Irssi 1.1.0, you can also save and
restore your command history -- `/script install savecmdhist` and make
sure it is in autorun as well.

We are committed to put security, stability and regression fixes on
subsequent 1.2.x releases, as we have done for 1.1.

As usual, there remains a lot to be done. We are always looking for
help, so you can check the [bugs](//github.com/irssi/irssi/labels/bug)
and see if you can fix some, or implement some of the enhancement
requests.

This release can be downloaded from [our releases
page](/NEWS/#v1-2-0). Binary test packages
for various Linux distributions are automatically generated by the
[openSUSE Build Service](https://build.opensuse.org/) and are
available for download in the
[irssi-test](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:ailin_nemui:irssi-test;package=irssi)
repository.

By the way, test packages for the Git version are also available for
download in the
[irssi-git](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:ailin_nemui:irssi-git;package=irssi-git)
repository, and an archive of the old stable version is available in
[irssi-oldtest](https://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:ailin_nemui:irssi-oldtest;package=irssi).

Feel welcome to join our [IRC channel](/support/irc), or discuss this
news on [Lobsters](https://lobste.rs/s/bq2flt/irssi_1_2_0_released),
[Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=19139803) or
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/IrssiProject/status/1095082848791482368).

The Irssi Team.
