---
layout: post
title: "Irssi 1.2.0 OTR Migration Path"
---

With the release of Irssi 1.2.0 we now bundle the OTR plug-in as part of the
Irssi source code. During the import phase of the `irssi-otr` codebase we fixed a
number of issues, but one of them caused us to break backwards compatibility
for old `irssi-otr` users.

With the updated OTR implementation the secret keys of the user is no longer
stored with an account name of `$nickname@$server` (for example:
`user@chat.freenode.net`), but is rather stored with the network (or chatnet if
you like) name from Irssi (for example: `Freenode`). This should remove the
issue that some users have reported where if they connect to another server on
a given network the OTR implementation generates new keys for you.

You can see your list of OTR keys in Irssi using `/otr info`.

## Upgrade Path

This requires a bit of manual work, but if you look at your `~/.irssi/otr`
directory you should have 3 files:

- `otr.fp` - containing the fingerprints of your OTR buddies.
- `otr.instag` - containing the tags from OTR.
- `otr.key` - containing your secret keys.

In `otr.fp` and `otr.key` you should manually open these files and modify the
old strings to the new format. The `otr.key` file is the most important one
since it contains the secret key material. The file contains an s-expression
like structure where the account name key can be found in the `(name
name-goes-here)` tuple. The `otr.fp` file contains a list of known
fingerprints.  Correct the account name from your preview keys there as well.
